feat: adds tf-terminology-breakdown article (#49)
masterpointio/masterpoint.io: content/blog/tf-terminology-breakdown.md

---
visible: true
draft: false
title: Terraform + OpenTofu Terminology Breakdown
slug: terraform-opentofu-terminology-breakdown
author: Matt Gowie

> date: 2025-03-01

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2025-05-21
```

## Demystifying HashiCorp Offerings: Terraform Cloud vs Terraform Enterprise vs HCP Terraform

HashiCorp has gone back and forth on some of their naming conventions around their Terraform product offering. As a result, it's a confusing product landscape. Terraform Cloud and Terraform Enterprise (sometimes referred to as TFE) offer essentially the same functionality, but Enterprise is self-hosted and has, as anything with the word Enterprise in it would be expected to have, a higher price tag. HCP Terraform, which is an acronym  for Hashicorp Cloud Platform Terraform, is the new name for Terraform Cloud.

You'll see all of these names in practice and can largely equate them to the same thing.

# TF Organization Patterns

When using Vanilla TF, there are two primary ways that we've seen people organize their root modules within a given TF project / repo. These are Masterpoint terms that we came up with to help discuss issues surrounding these patterns. We define them here as we believe there is value in sharing these.

## Multi-instance Root Modules

> Multi-instance is when a root module directory can have multiple state files that are associated with it. This is done with either TF workspaces or with dynamical backend configurations (what we simply call "Dynamic Backends" - explained below). An example of this is that you have an `db-cluster` root module and you deploy it with different configurations for your dev, stage, and prod environments. Think one directory to many state files.

Author: ```suggestion
Multi-instance is when a root module directory can have multiple state files that are associated with it. This is done with either TF workspaces or with OpenTofu's dynamically configured backends (what we simply call "Dynamic Backends" - explained below). An example of this is that you have an `db-cluster` root module and you deploy it with different configurations for your dev, stage, and prod environments. Think one directory to many state files.
```

> Multi-instance is when a root module directory can have multiple state files that are associated with it. This is done with either TF workspaces or with OpenTofu's dynamically configured backends (what we simply call "Dynamic Backends" - explained below). An example of this is that you have an `db-cluster` root module and you deploy it with different configurations for your dev, stage, and prod environments. Think one directory to many state files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multi-instance is when a root module directory can have multiple state files that are associated with it. This is done with either TF workspaces or with OpenTofu's dynamically configured backends (what we simply call "Dynamic Backends" - [explained above](#dynamic-backends-opentofu-only)). An example of this is that you have an `db-cluster` root module and you deploy it with different configurations for your dev, stage, and prod environments. Think one directory to many state files.
```

Reviewer: Dyanmic backend section is above this section, also hyperlink

Author: Good catch and thanks for the committable suggestion!
